



Network Working Group                                          R. Barnes
Internet-Draft
Obsoletes: 6548 (if approved)                             April 01, 2014
Updates: 6635 (if approved)
Intended status: Informational
Expires: October 03, 2014


                   Dissolving the Independent Stream
                         draft-barnes-noise-00

Abstract

   The Independent Stream has served for many years as a way for
   independent authors to publish specifications in the RFC series.  In
   the modern Internet, however, there are many other channels for
   publishing such specifications, so the Independent Stream is no
   longer necessary.  This document dissolves the Independent Stream and
   the related management entities, the Independent Series Editor and
   the Independent Series Editorial Board.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on October 03, 2014.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect



Barnes                  Expires October 03, 2014                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                    NOISE                       April 2014


   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

1.  Introduction

   In the early days of the Internet, the RFC series served as a means
   of technical coordination between scientists and developers working
   on the Internet, at a time when few other channels for publishing
   technical specifications were available.  The Independent Stream of
   RFCs provided a way for independent authors to publish through this
   channel, without the need for the IESG, IRSG, or IAB to approve.

   This document dissolve the Independent Stream, for a few reasons:

   o  There are abundant alternative channels for publishing
      specifications

   o  The RFC "brand" is tied to the IETF

   o  The existence of the Independent Stream creates a risk of end-runs

   With the growth of the Internet, and especially the Web, there are
   many more venues for independent authors to publish technical
   specifications.  Some web sites make publishing a specification as
   simple as typing into a web form, and many sites have much better
   support for collaborative editing and internationalization than the
   RFC series.  So the independent author community would be better
   served by publishing their specifications through those channels than
   by continuing to use the Independent Stream of RFCs.

   In the broader community of consumers of RFCs (as opposed to those of
   us who participate in their creation), the knowledge of streams is
   not widespread.  Rather, an RFC from any stream is taken with more or
   less equivalent weight.  Publishing independently authored documents
   as RFCs risks causing confusion between independently authored
   documents with minimal review, and documents that are the product of
   the extensive IETF consensus process.  We serve the community better
   by aligning to their expectations.

   Finally, the existence of the Independent Stream gives authors a way
   to circumvent the processes established by the IETF, IRTF, and IAB
   for assuring the quality of documents in their streams.  T Over time,
   a substantial body of process has grown up to mitigate these risks.
   Dissolving the Independent Stream removes the need for this process,
   simplifying the management of the RFC series, while also removing the
   path to end-run the I* processes.



Barnes                  Expires October 03, 2014                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                    NOISE                       April 2014


   Independent authors still wishing to publish RFCs should keep in mind
   that they still have access to the individual submission process.
   This process allows an individual, with the sponsorship of any Area
   Director, to propose a document for IETF review and possible
   publication as an RFC [RFC2026].

2.  Actions

   The approval of this document reflects the consensus of the Internet
   community to dissolve the following roles and organizations:

   o  Independent Stream Editor [RFC6548]

   o  Independent Submissions Editorial Board [RFC6548]

   In addition, this document updates RFC 6635 [RFC6635] to remove the
   Independent Stream from the RFC Editor model.  The RFC Editor no
   longer accepts submissions from independent authors.

3.  References

3.1.  Normative References

   [RFC6548]  Brownlee, N. and IAB, "Independent Submission Editor
              Model", RFC 6548, June 2012.

   [RFC6635]  Kolkman, O., Halpern, J., and IAB, "RFC Editor Model
              (Version 2)", RFC 6635, June 2012.

3.2.  Informative References

   [RFC2026]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, October 1996.

Author's Address

   Richard Barnes

   Email: rlb@ipv.sx












Barnes                  Expires October 03, 2014                [Page 3]

